[Music]
over the past year or so we've seen a
lot of powerful handhelds come into the
space right we saw the steam deck we saw
the RG Ally and a bunch of cool devices
from Boutique Brands like iono but all
of these devices run AMD chips and with
good reason because Intel's offering in
this form factor is just it's not
competitive but I always wondered what
would Intel's response be turns out
they've been working on something pretty
cool this is it here so this is the MSI
claw and this is the first handheld that
uses the new Intel chip the new meteor
Lake chips so at first glance the
external hardware might look like just a
black RG Ally but it's actually a pretty
different kind of product so the first
thing the handheld ergonomics of the MSI
claw feel surprisingly different from
the Ally like if you look at them just
from the top view they don't look that
different in terms of like the shape of
them they both have that kind of angular
bottom and they have like a similar kind
of feel but this device is a lot flatter
if you look at them kind of like their
profile of them uh the black device the
MSI claw that that hump like this over
here it makes a very big difference when
you're holding it so one of the things
I've always not really complained about
but noted about the Ali is despite the
kind of flatness of the product and me
liking how flat it is it does have a
very flat grip to it and I've never love
the ergonomics of this device uh
compared to like the steam deck this has
like a super bulbous hump the steam
decks grip these have what I would
consider like the most ergonomic feel of
all the handhelds this is in between the
MSI cloth feels like it's a mixture
between like semi flat but having a nice
hump on the back and I really like the
way that this thing feels now it is
smaller than say something like the
steam deck this is a more compact system
and also has a 7in screen just like the
Ally it is a little bit heavier but this
product overall is just in my mind a
direct competitor to the r Ally it just
has a completely different chip now I do
want to mention just these buttons these
light up I've never seen a handheld
console where the abxy buttons light up
it's running these lights underneath
some smoked plastic so it's not like a
super bright light but they do light up
if that matters to you now the chip in
here is an Intel Core Ultra 7 but I'm
shooting this on pre-production Hardware
so the exterior design of this product
is pretty much finalized I imagine that
it's so late in the game that they
couldn't change too much at this point
but in terms of the performance and the
drivers and the internal stuff that can
all be tweaked and adjusted before
launch now in terms of power profiles
there's three of them so at the very
bottom you have the super battery mode
that pulls 50 watts and then the balance
mode pulls 30 and at the top end you
want to go full blast Extreme
Performance 45 Watts now there's a
couple things to take away from this I
guess the first thing is that at the top
end if you want to this system can pull
more juice than the RG Ally this thing
caps out at 30 Watts this is 45 at the
top end but at the bottom end the other
takeaway is that the kind of if you're
playing like really light titles like 2D
indie games or you want emulation this
system can the lowest it'll go is 15
watts where this can go like 9 or 10
watts so there's a there's a difference
in kind of like the the where the power
profile lies the performance testing I
was allowed to do on it though was very
limited and because of that I can't get
a good gauge of how efficient this chip
actually is my initial Impressions
though is that this system is on par
with what the RG Ally does at that 25 to
30 WT profile now if you open it up you
can tell that this system was built to
handle more power draw it has two fans
and two heat pipes which is great
because it allows you to cool the system
very well but there was this one area
that kind of concerned me in the menu I
noticed there was a cooler boost option
now cooler boost is the kind of software
feature that a lot of MSI laptops have
that just turn the fans on to Max is for
like overclocking a lot of their devices
but on this system when I hit this
cooler boost button and the fans kick
in that's loud
like that's hella loud now
I never had to turn this on and all my
testing I was like why would you even
need that option because it never gets
hot enough to require it and it was
never activated to the point where the
cooler boost was just like actively
running like that but I thought why
would they even put this in here like
does the Intel chip just unlock to some
kind of crazy performance mode when you
blast the fans on it I can't tell on
this pre-production unit like this uh
engineering sample doesn't seem to have
a need for the cooler boost at all but
maybe on the retail unit there is a
purpose to it now in terms of the normal
fan noise and normal kind of thermal
characteristics it's a very cool and
quiet system like way cooler and quieter
than previous Intel handhelds those were
all like comically poor this is really
good um but again in terms of like an
actual comparison between the this
product in AMD I need a retail unit to
come in now there's a bigger battery
inside the MSI claw this is a 53w hour
battery which is significantly larger
than the one that's in the RG Ali this
is a 40w hour battery I think just based
on sheer size it's like like 30 maybe
35% bigger inside the MSI claw but MSI
is claiming a 50% increase in battery
life so I think it's possible based on
my limited testing I think at the 15
watt profile you can get about 50% more
battery life on the MSI claw versus the
RG Ally but again I really need to get
the retail units in to do some proper
testing but it is interesting that
that's the claim that they made a 50% uh
bump in battery life over its competitor
uh a couple things I want toose this
video on the screens actually I'll bring
this back in real quick I think they're
the same screens between the two devices
they're both 7 in they're both 120 HZ I
think the claw also has variable refresh
rate uh but I do think that they're
awesome screens like the Ally had a
great screen for an LCD panel if there's
one screen you're going to bring it over
I'm glad it's that one now the controls
uh why do I keep removing this the
controls between the two are very
similar in terms of just like the layout
and uh functionality but I would say the
biggest difference is actually in the
back button the Rog Ally has a large
back button but the only way to really
actuate this or the way that I think
most people do it is by pressing this
section of it this kind of like angled
piece here so if you're ingame you would
press it like so if you try to press it
from the outside it doesn't really
trigger same with the top or the bottom
it's really you got to press it there or
you don't press it at all on the MSI
claw it's a smaller button I'll flip it
around you can kind of see the size
comparison the claw does have a smaller
back button but this thing has a bunch
of facets to it and I noticed that when
you you can trigger it any way like you
can press any one of those different
facets and it would work so when you're
in game you can trigger it from the
top like being able to press down on it
it's just like where your hand naturally
rests you can trigger them like that and
I just found that to be really useful in
Street Fighter 6 just any game that uses
back buttons where you want to use back
buttons I like that usability but it's a
minor detail thought I'd bring it up cuz
I just noticed it when I was using it uh
during this short testing period but
there you have it that is the MSI claw I
think this is such a neat product it
came in a left field like I was not
expecting Intel or MSI to drop something
like this I just it wasn't on the radar
so it's cool that they actually has
something that competes with all those
AMD products out there okay there you
have it MSI
[Music]
claw